# GEMINI

What is Gemini? I think DT from DistroTube explains it well:

=> gemini://distro.tube distro.tube
=> https://distrotube.com distrotube.com

## WHY GEMINI?

I have decided to move my personal websites -- and some other projects -- over to the Gemini protocol for a number of reasons (in no specific order):

* Gemini-based capsules are easy to maintain
* Gemini-based capsules are fun to maintain!
* No tracking, ads, or any other unneeded fluff
* The community: From the short experience I have had with the Gemini community, it has been awesome! I love to see the motivation and movement behind this project, it's really inspiring!
* The development-sphere

## RESOURCES

### UTILITIES

GemRest: A development studio focused on delivering high performance, Gemini-situated utilities. Run by Fuwn (me)!

=> gemini://gem.rest GemRest

### CLIENTS

Lagrange: An amazing desktop GUI client for Gemini and Gopher that is just amazing. My #1 client of choice.

=> gemini://skyjake.fi/lagrange/ Lagrange

Amfora: A very nice, feature-rich, and easy-to-use CLI client for Gemini, my CLI client of choice.

=> https://github.com/makeworld-the-better-one/amfora Amfora

Bollux: A fun little CLI client for Gemini written in Bash! I mostly use this for quick and dirty testing and development purposes.

=> https://sr.ht/~acdw/bollux/ Bollux

Elaho: An elegant IOS Gemini client which I personally use.

=> gemini://elaho.glv.one

### PROXIES

September: A high performance Gemini-to-HTTP proxy written in Rust, focused on accessibility and speed.

=> https://github.com/gemrest/september September

Capybara: A Gemini-to-HTTP proxy, simple and just works. (No longer in active development in favour of September, check README)

=> https://github.com/gemrest/capybara Capybara

Mozz.us and Vuples.one Portals: Great Gemini-to-HTTP proxies, simple and intuitive.

=> https://portal.mozz.us portal.mozz.us
=> https://proxy.vulpes.one proxy.vulpes.one

Alternatively, you can also use Capybara's (the Gemini-to-HTTP proxy I use for this capsule) built in proxy at the following URL:

=> https://fuwn.me/proxy/fuwn.me fuwn.me/proxy/fuwn.me

Just replace the "fuwn.me" after "proxy/" with whatever Gemini capsule you would like to visit, but be warned; it is not as sophisticated as the aforementioned proxies above, but it gets the job done!

### FRAMEWORKS & SERVERS

Windmark: An elegant and highly performant async Gemini server framework, written by me! (Fuwn)

Similar to Gig, but faster and written in Rust.

=> https://github.com/gemrest/windmark Windmark

Gig: A Golang framework for developing and deploying dynamic (or static) Gemini capsules.

=> https://github.com/pitr/gig Gig

Agate: A static Gemini server written in Rust! I'd recommend this to just about anyone!

=> gemini://gem.limpet.net/agate Agate

### WINDMARK MODULES

Windmark Comments: A comment engine module for Windmark

=> https://github.com/gemrest/windmark-comments Windmark Comments

### CAPSULES

=> gemini://gemini.circumlunar.space Project Gemini
=> gemini://medusae.space medusae.space gemini directory
=> gemini://gem.acdw.net acdw's gemini cottage
=> gemini://gem.chriswere.uk Chris's gemini capsule
=> gemini://gemini.barca.mi.it The Amazing Fnt400's Gemini Capsule
=> gemini://hexdsl.co.uk The Home of HexDSL
=> gemini://envs.net envs.net
=> gemini://rawtext.club rawtext.club
